By: Voice of Reason | Facebook has done some pretty bad stuff this last year. They spent a lot of money and personal resources to help Hillary Clinton out during the election, but not any more says CEO and Founder Mark Zuckerberg! After the liberal media tried to make him turn on one of his oldest friends, Peter Thiel, for donating to Donald Trump , Zuckerberg finally decided to fight back. Since Zuckerberg is still technically supporting Hillary for President, in the following video I suggest what his real motive may have been for lashing out with pro-Trump rhetoric, and why the person he’s defending doesn’t win Zuckerberg any humanitarian awards either… He wrote a scathing post, telling people that Facebook will stand for more than just the ideas of a few tech elite, but instead for the ideas of the people. Zuckerberg even acknowledged there are GOOD reasons that people support Trump : They believe strongly in smaller government They want a different tax policy They want a better health care system They want to maintain religious freedom They worry about American gun rights Or ANY other issue where he disagrees with Hillary He ended the post by saying: “That’s ultimately what Facebook is about: giving everyone the power to share our experiences, so we can understand each other a bit better and connect us a little closer together.” So, despite the fact that he still supports Hillary Clinton , I want to thank Mark Zuckerberg for having the common decency to acknowledge the Trump Train even though all his tech billionaire friends will attack him for it. Now let’s get this shared out everywhere so we can show the world that Hillary’s “network” is finally turning it’s back on her. In related news, could what happened just hours after the final debate be the REAL reason Zuckerberg came out of the closet as a pro-Trump keyboard warrior? Several hours after what was arguably Trump ’s best performance of the campaign so far, one of the world’s top political experts gave Trump the best news he could hope to hear… Danny Gold continues: If you love Trump , today just became a HECK of a lot better! A very well respected political professor from Syracuse has just given Donald Trump the best news of the entire election. Professor Helmut Norpoth stepped forward today, despite HUGE opposition from his peers, to announce that his scientific formula has predicted the TRUE results of the election. And the result is… There is an 87%-99% chance that Donald Trump will WIN the election! Heck yeah! See, at least there are still some people who have not been bought off by Hillary Clinton. According to Northrop, all the other predictions are based entirely on opinion polls, which are inherently wrong. Instead of opinion polling, Norpoth relies on statistics from candidates’ performances in party primaries and patterns in the electoral cycle to forecast results. His model has correctly predicted the victor in every presidential election since 1996. (H/T- The Gateway Pundit ) So if you wanted something to celebrate, I mean other than Donald Trump ’s epic win over Hillary Clinton at the final Presidential debate, then Helmut Norpoth has just given you exactly that. Now let’s help share this GREAT news to everyone else in the entire world. Let every Trump supporting Facebook friend you have know! First of all, Zuckerberg may be a flaming liberal, but he’s no fool. It’s no secret that Zuckerberg has enjoyed a cushy relationship with Obama and the White House over the past eight years, but a Trump presidency could pose a threat to Mark Zuckerberg’s current role as the self-proclaimed arbiter of “free speech.” As Facebook’s CEO, Zuckerberg has almost absolute control over what is, and what is not “acceptable” to believe in, or talk about on the Internet. Then, there’s the whole issue of who Zuckerberg was defending when he had his micro-aggression and temporarily boarded the “ Trump Train.” It’s not like he was defending Mother Teresa’s good name or something. Peter Thiel, the guy who is Zuck’s BFF that people were ragging on for donating to Trump , just happens to the chief henchman of the Bilderberg Group, and chairman of its steering committee. It’s worth noting too, that Peter Thiel is HARDLY Zuckerberg’s closest connection to the Bilderberg group. I won’t discuss it here, but he’s got another connection that hits MUCH closer to home, so before everyone gets all excited thinking that perhaps Zuckerberg isn’t such a bad guy after all, it’s more likely he’s just hedging his bets, and Hillary was probably fully aware of what he said ahead of time. THE VOICE OF REASON is the pen name of Michael DePinto, a graduate of Capital University Law School, and an attorney in Florida. Having worked in the World Trade Center, along with other family and friends, Michael was baptized by fire into the world of politics on September 11, 2001. Michael’s political journey began with tuning in religiously to whatever the talking heads on television had to say, then Michael became a “Tea-Bagging” activist as his liberal friends on the Left would say, volunteering within the Jacksonville local Tea Party, and most recently Michael was sworn in as an attorney. Today, Michael is a major contributor to www.BeforeItsNews.com , he owns and operates www.thelastgreatstand.com , where Michael provides what is often very ‘colorful’ political commentary, ripe with sarcasm, no doubt the result of Michael’s frustration as he feels we are witnessing the end of the American Empire. The topics Michael most often weighs in on are: Martial Law, FEMA Camps, Jade Helm, Economic Issues, Government Corruption, and Government Conspiracy. Submit your review