The greatest trick that feminism has pulled is to convince the masses that women are presently disadvantaged relative to men.
It is true that at first glance, men dominate every field, from business to Pokémon Go achievements , which can lead some to think that there is a conspiracy against women. But the male superiority in many fields is exactly what allows society to prosper. Years after the humiliating debunking of the wage gap, it’s time to address the real elephant in the room: the fact that women don’t pay taxes.
A research report on the fiscal contribution of men and women across age groups was published by the Victoria University of Wellington . Let’s explore the key findings.

This is the well-known earnings gap (incorrectly referred to as the wage gap). Women’s preference for low paying jobs, among others, is a factor at play here. Another factor is the amount of women working part time. The average week for women, in this research, was 28.9 hours, and 37.2 for men. The workforce participation rate did not differ between men and women in significant ways.

This is the disposable income. This is the ”income remaining after deduction of taxes and other mandatory charges, available to be spent or saved as one wishes.” You can see that progressive taxes unfairly impact males , and reduces males’ disposable income near women’s, although the market income was almost double that of women’s. If it disproportionately affects men , you can be assured that no one will complain.

Those are the raw taxes paid by men and women. The tax gap has, oddly, never been an gender issue until now.

When the tax money received by men and women is included in the equation, you can see that for most of women’s lives (except between 44 to 60), they receive more tax money than they supply the state with. Men, on the other hand, give the state more tax money than they receive from 23 to 65 years.

This is where it gets upsetting. As you can see, women’s short period of positive fiscal impact doesn’t come close to counter-balance an already massive overall negative impact. ”The net fiscal incidence on men is approximately zero when accumulated over all ages.” As such, society invests in young males, and they subsequently pay back society’s investment. Women bear massive costs to society, while we were taught to see them as underprivileged.
By the end of her life, the average woman will cost about $150,000 to the average taxpayer. This means that an average man is extorted $150,000 in his lifetime that will be directly transferred to women. If men could use that money to their will, women would chase men as much as men chase women nowadays.
There are a few confounds that need to be ruled out. The authors mention specifically that health and education costs are almost equal for men and women. Also, the workforce percentage doesn’t exceed 10% difference between men and women. Women don’t spend more for children either, according to the report. Even if there were confounds that needed to be accounted for, this is not something feminists have done for the 77-cent wage gap. They have compared raw percentages without accounting for any confounding factors.
Also, these numbers do not include massive costs for the governmental budget for women’s issues, that is a massive burden for the state. For instance, my local government (from a Canadian province of 8 million people) just announced a $200,000,000 plan to fight sexual violence against women , after two immigrants ding-dong-ditched women in a student house .
Add to that millions invested in sex-ed programs, in which a feminist teaches boys that porn movies tailored for them shouldn’t be imitated, and that instead, that they should have their partner’s pleasure in mind, while teaching the exact opposite to girls. The government takes money from males to empower women into hating men and their contribution to society.
https://t.co/Rnb9rpFW3s Québec (Canada) announces 200$ million plan against sexual violence after two FOREIGNERS touched female students
— Nicolas Kilsdonk (@nkgervais) October 29, 2016 

The data also doesn’t include all the money directly and personally transferred from a man to a woman. For instance, while women make so little, they still account for 85% of all consumer purchases . And you were wondering why marketers so desperately try to appeal to women in advertisements.
A metaphor for male taxpayers and women? This is a real Danone ad. Watch it here or see my comment here .
The only defense that feminists can use, when confronted with these facts, is that women invest so much time in children. However, feminists made it very clear in the past decades that a woman’s contribution to society shouldn’t be based on her involvement with children. Moreover, at birth rates of half the necessary 2.1 birthrate for population stability, they’re also doing the children thing pretty badly.
These findings raise a serious question: would feminism survive a libertarian regime that doesn’t involve (male) tax money? After all, it is not a coincidence that women consistently vote for a welfare state. Within 10 years of women’s suffrage in the USA, the government doubled their tax expenditure and revenue . Women’s voting patterns have made the government become the new providing husband. But this time, the providing husband doesn’t get a woman or children in return. Remove taxes, and no woman will ever claim to be a ”strong, independent woman.” The state is cucking you. A little like if prostitution was not only legal, but free . Most guys would probably be strong, independent single males.
Pretty ironic that the institution that gives money to women for being pregnant, prevents them from being paid less, makes abortions affordable… is entirely supported by men. Feminists are not seriously against living in a society entirely supported by men, they are just against men having the autonomy over the wealth they create. Male wealth is a public good and female wealth is… ”her body her choice.”
It’s time we fight for equal tax.
Here are my social media accounts: Twitter , Facebook , YouTube 
Read More: Yet Another Media-Hyped Rape Accusation Is Debunked 
