NTEB Ads Privacy Policy The Republican Party Finally Set Free From The Grip Of The Bush Crime Family And Other Phonies To the Bush Crime Family, Colin Powell, William Kristol, and all the other phony Republicans who were exposed, you will not be welcome in the new America under President Donald Trump. You are fakes, frauds, phonies and criminals. Now that you're out, stay out and don't come back. by Geoffrey Grider November 10, 2016 Donald Trump single-handedly took down the entire corrupt wing of the Republican Party 
Donald Trump’s run for the presidency over the past year and a half revealed some amazing things, it flushed out the rats that had hijacked the Republican Party like the Bush Crime Family and others. While George W. Bush declared that he and his wife Laura “ would not be voting in this election “, his father George H.W. Bush actually voted for Crooked Hillary Clinton . (If you’d like a cheat sheet of the rest of the Republirats who jumped ship, click here .) 
Why did many of the pretend Republicans not vote for Donald Trump? Because they are part of the New World Order elite globalists, and they could not possibly support Trump’s America First agenda. The Bush Crime Family, after 28 years of corrupting the GOP, was finally exposed to the sunlight and what an ugly sight it was. For more information on this topic,please read NTEB’s The Top 5 Conspiracy Theories That Were Proven To Be True Because Donald Trump Ran For President . If you are just hearing about this for the first time, it will be an eye-opener. 
The GOP is frequently referred to as the “party of Reagan” , but that’s not really a true statement. It used to be the party of Ronald Reagan after the 1980 revolution , but shortly after Reagan’s term ended it was hijacked by the Bush Crime family. For over twenty years now, the Republican Party has been a festering witches cabal of New World Order elites and Bohemian Grove acolytes. The Bush Crime Family – Three Generations of Treason 
The November 1989 edition of SPY magazine featured photos of Bohemian Grove men dancing around dressed up as women . The article included artist renditions of the Moloch idol and discussed how they bus in male prostitutes and how AIDS is a big problem. In July of 2004, a New York Post article reported how a top gay-porn star, Chad Savage, serviced the moguls at the Bohemian Grove. Bigwigs who have attended the two-week retreat include George H.W. Bush , Dick Cheney, Alan Greenspan, Walter Cronkite, Alexander Haig, Jack Kemp, Henry Kissinger , Colin Powell , John Major, William F. Buckley, Justin Dart, William Randolph Hearst, Jr., Caspar Weinberger, Charles Percy, George Schultz, Edward Teller, and former C.I.A. director William Casey. A Brief History Of Molech, the Owl, the Bushes and the Bohemian Grove: 
The corrupt liberal media all said in lockstep that Donald Trump will “ destroy the Republican party “, but it was only a half-true statement. All the people who defected when Trump was nominated were people who needed to be expunged from the Grand Old Party of Lincoln and Reagan. 
To the Bush Crime Family , Colin Powell , William Kristol , and all the other phony Republicans who were exposed, you will not be welcome in the new America under President Donald Trump. You are fakes, frauds, phonies and criminals. 
Now that you’re out, stay out and don’t come back. 
Geoffrey Grider NTEB is run by end times author and editor-in-chief Geoffrey Grider. Geoffrey runs a successful web design company, and is a full-time minister of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. In addition to running NOW THE END BEGINS, he has a dynamic street preaching outreach and tract ministry team in Saint Augustine, FL. NTEB #TRENDING