Summer Child Mind Control School - Project Monarch Child Killing In a Cage - Jakob's Diary # supernaturalgears.org 0 
True Story? When I was growing up on the family farm a man came to the door and seemed to blow something into my parents face. My parents then started talking to him as if they had known them forever. Like they were great friends. He then started talking to me and said he was going to take me to school. This was during the summer. It was in July. I said "This is summer vacation I already went to school." He said yea, but I have another school for you to go to that will be fun. Your going to like this school. My parents said to go with the man. There seem to be something wrong with them as if they were in some sort of trance. I got in the car with the man as he seem to spray something into my face from a aerosol can. He drove a small foreign German made green car. I remember sort of falling asleep but was wide awake asleep and wide awake at the same time. The trance drug shocking blue made from the plant Burundanga can produce this state of mind. I remember waking up going around this road curve near the farm called horseshoe bend. This was in the 60's and the song "Something tells me I'm into something good," by the Herman's Hermits was playing on the radio. I was looking out the window when it struck me when I looked over at the driver and realized I was riding with this strange man. It freaked me out and I grabbed for the steering wheel. He yelled stop and then it was like I had no control could only obey his order. I said where are you taking me? He said to school. I said this is summer I already went to school. I said what if I jump out of the car and run into the woods? He said he would chase me and kill me. I started crying. He then said, "sorry I said that I didn't mean it." He said why don't you just sit back and enjoy the ride. I said again where are you taking me. He said to school. Your going to like this school. There are lots of other kids there. I then seem to go to sleep. I awoke what seem to be a large hospital. It was in an underground facility at the aberdeen Military proving grounds base. There were nurses everywhere with around 50 hospital beds with children lying on them looking to be asleep with medical devices attached to their heads. This nurse told me to get on the bed. I did. Then this doctor approached me who I now know was doctor Joesef Megele the Nazi angel of death. He said his name was Doctor Green. He was young. I now know he is alive and living in Lancaster Pa among the amish. He takes youth drugs he developed in the Nazi child experimentation death camps in WWII. Like in a second later. Suddenly. I then seem to awake back on the farm. I was bagging up corn in the corn shed. I felt strange. Something wasn't right. It felt like summer was almost over. I didn't remember how I got to the corn shed. I asked my grandfather what day it is. He said, it's august 27th. Glad we found you in the woods since you went missing. Went missing? My grandfather said the police had searched the woods said I was missing for a few days this week. But they found me. In my mind I freaked out, august 27th? How could that be? I really had been missing for two months. I later learned that fake memories (FM's) were put into my grandfathers mind about the recent few days missing in the woods story. I remember it seemed like moments ago it was the beginning of July where I had my last memory. Then the memories started to flood as the retrograde amnesia was lifting from the trance drug I was administered. Memories of hundreds of children from around the world in cages stacked on top of one another. I was in a cage high up me and a girl named Mary and another kid named Billy and some other kid I can't remember his name all of us together in this cage. Billy was told to kill the other little kid in the cage. If he did strangled him they would let him go. It was horrible. Sadly he did screaming and crying the whole time. JaKOBS DIaRY, TRaNCE OF THE MONaRCH. Log entry 8UYTgUYT8 Tags