Share on Facebook 
Unless you’ve been living under a rock for the past couple-hundred years, you’ve heard at least one person complain that black people need to go “back to Africa.” Even the President of the United States, unfortunately, is not immune to this treatment. For years, Barack Obama has weathered a barrage of race-based hatred, with people who would become Trump’s Basket of Deplorables calling him “monkey” and “ape” and “n*gger”— and, yes, complaining that President Obama (who was born in Hawaii) needs to go “back to Africa.” In this case, Deplorable Fox News contributor Sean Hannity told the President to get on a plane to Kenya after the election and never return. 
“I have an offer for the President. I will charter a plane for you and your family,” Hannity said on his radio show. “I will charter it to the country of your choice. You want to go to Canada? I’ll pay for you to go to Canada. You want to go to Kenya? I’ll pay for you to go to Kenya. Jakarta, where you went to school back in the day, you can go back there.” 
“I will charter Donald Trump’s plane if he’ll let me,” Hannity added, noting that there is “one stipulation”—“You can’t come back!” 
Naturally, this message of “go back to Africa and stay there” resonated with conservatives, with many chiming in to offer their own suggestions on right-wing lie-factory Western Journalism’s comment section . Some suggested he be flown to Guantanamo Bay to be tortured for 50 years. Others suggested outright assassination. One man even made a creepy remark about stalking Malia Obama in the bathroom: 
All of these people will be voting for Mr. Deplorable on November 28. Make sure you’re out there on November 8, when it’s actually Election Day. Listen to Hannity’s remarks below: 
Featured image via screengrab/Getty Images(Chip Somodevilla) Related Written by John Prager John Prager is an unfortunate Liberal soul who lives uncomfortably in the middle of a Conservative hellscape. John is the managing editor of Winning Democrats . He moonlights as a counselor at one of Barry Soetoro's FEMA re-education camps and as a HAARP weather control coordinator. John's life's aspiration is to rule the world with an iron fist, or find that sock he's been looking for. Feel free to email him at [email protected] if you have any questions or comments -- or drop him a line on Twitter or Facebook . SEARCH THE SITE